# visionary-state
#### Abstract
Understanding the diversity of alternate states of consciousness offers valuable insights into the richness of human subjective experience. This study investigates, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the neurophenomenology of a self-induced transcendental visionary state in a gifted parti(Demertzi et al., 2019; Natsoulas, 1983)cipant capable of voluntarily entering an alternate (or altered) state of consciousness (ASC) characterized by vivid imagery, altered perceptions, and a sense of transcendence. We analyzed changes in brain connectivity during baseline, the altered state, and the transitions into and out of the state. Psychological questionnaires indicated the participant’s high absorptive capacity and minimal dissociative tendencies, while a micro-phenomenological interview provided a detailed account of her experience. fMRI results revealed significant reorganization in functional networks in the altered state compared to the baseline and a matched control group. There was a general decrease in connectivity and increased variability in connectivity levels during the transition stage, suggesting a dissolution and reorganization of functional networks. Visual, somatosensory, and ventral attention networks showed strong disconnection from other networks. Conversely, frontoparietal and salience networks exhibited increased connectivity. This study enhances our understanding of altered states of consciousness, emphasizing the importance of integrating first-person experiences with neural data to advance consciousness research.
